Loan Welcome back.
In this lecture I'd like to talk about the principle of dependency and aversion kind of hear this quite
quite a bit in a lot of terminology in a lot of different resources.
It's a principle that states that entities must depend on abstractions and not on concrete actions.
Again a common theme that we've seen in many different lectures so far all about these interfaces right.
These abstractions not concrete classes right.
So you have this client and it really just uses these interfaces.
The goal is to reduce dependencies on concrete classes uses views as little as possible.
The concrete class that you have to from the client side abstraction should not depend upon the details.
That's the whole point of an abstraction.
It should only depend upon the abstractions high level classes must not depend on the low level classes
both high level classes and low level classes should depend upon abstractions.
Again it's all about abstractions the lower level class implementation is accessible to the higher level
class the and abstract interface actual implementation of lower level classes can then vary.
You have the separation you can utilize abstractions you can change things much easier because you don't
have to change the abstraction and you're only utilizing the abstraction the inversion name in this
principle is there because it inverts the way you typically might think about your and your own design.
Typically when you design things you think OK.
Top to bottom dependencies and so forth with both the high level and the low level classes you now invert
that and you think of it opposite.
You no longer think in a top to bottom you think in a bottom to top right low level classes are now
dependent upon the high level classes but you take away that dependencies through abstraction.
There's no correlation there.
Both of them are gonna depend on this abstraction this sounds very similar to program through an interface
not to an implementation.
The difference being this actual principle makes an even stronger statement about abstraction.
When we talked about programming into an interface not implementation it's essentially this but this
is even more right because what it's saying is the client should only deal with these interfaces.
He shouldn't deal with concrete classes both of those principals are saying this but this just makes
a stronger statement about abstraction really emphasizes the importance of the abstraction.
This is a central principle underlying the use of many design patterns.
Again that's why we're looking at these principles so you have to invert your thinking.
So let's look at an example.
Let's say we need to implement a pizza store.
What's the first thought that pops in your head God.
Think for a second what's the first thought that pops in your head while usually you start at the top
and go to the bottom right.
You start designing the top level classes and you follow them down to the concrete classes however you
do not want your store to know about these concrete concrete pizza types because then the pizza store
is going to be dependent on all those concrete classes so you want to invert you thinking instead of
starting at the top you want to start at the pizzas.
The lower classes and think about what you can extract the pizza itself is the abstraction is what you're
going to come to.
So you're different concrete pizza types depend only on an abstraction and so does your store.
The two of them are not coupled together.
So the initial design where the store dependent on the concrete classes.
When you thought of a top down design that can be inverted to have the design abstract those two dependencies
the top to the bottom the the interface to the actual or the base class to the subclass.
You don't have to think of the pizza store and then the pizzas below it.
You now think of the pizzas depending on an abstract class in the pizza store.
Depending on an abstract class they're now independent of one another.
They don't have those dependencies.
It's a different way of thinking because again usually you think in a top down manner.
But if we think as where the pizza is the abstraction we have much more benefits to this.
And so I got this example from head first design patterns and I want to show you an illustration in
one second but if the pizza store is the high level class its behavior can be defined in terms of pizzas.
It creates all the different pizza objects and prepares bakes carts and boxes the pizzas the pizzas
are gonna use all the low level classes pizza it uses are low level classes so the pizza implementations
are now things like veggie pizza New York style Chicago style the pizza store class is independent.
Upon these concrete pizza classes there's no dependency there.
So what this principal is telling us is we should write our code so that we are depending on abstractions
not on these concrete classes.
So the client is just going to see the after action.
This applies to both high level classes and low level classes.
We can create an abstract class named pizza the pizza store and the concrete pizzas.
Both depend on the pizza class.
That's the abstraction.
Let's take a look at an example with an illustration here and again I took this from headfirst design
patterns because it was such a good example I couldn't resist our pizza store only depends on the pizza
the pizzas the abstraction.
That's the abstract class the concrete pizza classes depend on the abstraction as well.
They implement this pizza interface and all these different types of pizzas can be created New York
style cheese pizza New York style clam pizza pepperoni pizza Chicago style pepperoni pizza all these
nice things but the pizza store is now not directly coupled to the concrete classes you have that abstraction
that pizza abstraction.
What are the advantages of following this principle and providing this abstraction the obvious one is
the coupling.
There is no no more dependencies between the top classes and the lower level classes before each higher
level class was tightly coupled with the low covert level concrete class that's taken away because we
now provide the abstraction and in the past what happened was any change in the lower level class had
a ripple effect to the next higher level class.
So it was extremely costly to maintain this whole hierarchy and functionality of layers this dependency
inversion principle introduces this layer of abstraction between the higher level class and lower level
concrete class.
Now the higher level class only depends on the abstraction and the lower level class can be modified
or extended without worrying about screwing up that high level class all the lower level class has to
do is adhere to the contract with the interface.
The abstraction itself principle basically provides loose coupling between these higher low level classes
by introducing that abstraction layer very very beneficial for maintain maintenance finding and fixing
bugs adding new functionality and also extension adding that new functionality is much easier now.
Some of the guidelines that you want to follow so that you adhere to this principle are no variable
should hold a reference to a concrete class.
We had an example of this previously right in the past.
You can create instance of objects you have to know those instances or you could call like a get method
to get method is essentially using a factory pattern.
You don't have to actually know anything about the concrete class.
If you use a factory design pattern and so that's what this principal is saying is use that get method.
Never have a new on the concrete class whenever you want to get your concrete class instance you say
get and use the factory pattern.
This will become clearer when we talk about the factory pattern.
But what's happening here is you're not using new no class should subclass from a concrete class if
you subclass from a concrete class.
You're depending on that concrete class you want to always subclass from an abstraction and this would
be an interface or an abstract class even own interface you implement it.
You're still actually providing sort of a subclass to it right because you can now pass around the interface
but an after class it could also be used.
No method should override and implement and method of any of its base classes.
If you override implement and method then your base class was not really an abstraction to start with
right.
Do you see what that point means there.
If it would give them traction you would need to override it method methods implemented in the base
class are meant to be shared by all of your subclasses.
You may be asking yourself what you mean I can't override any implemented method.
What do you mean I can't subclass from any concrete class.
You don't always know.
I mean there are cases where this may not apply but the benefits of applying this is that a loose coupling
and so you strive for this.
You try to do this as much as you can right.
You try not to subclass McCosker class.
You try not to override any implement and methods in the base classes because again that's a smell of
a design flaw in the sense that it's not really an abstraction.
If you're overriding so this is a guideline as I mentioned you should strive for.
It's not a rule that you can follow all the time it all depends on the situation.
If you have a class that's not likely to change you know that this class is not going to change a lot
then it may be okay to instantiate a concrete class using the new operator right.
There's not a lot of damage done.
So for example we instantiate String objects all the time and this violates the principle but the String
class is never going to change right.
So it would be useful to just basically say new on the String objects like we do because it's never
changing.
It's not it's not a class that changes much.
So who cares if it violates the principle.
You should internalize these guidelines and have them in the back of your mind when you design.
So if you notice that you're starting to subclass a lot of concrete classes think to yourself it's just
going to create more coupling.
It's going to be more tightly coupled.
Am I really adhering to DSP.
No you're not.
If you're doing a lot of override override and methods of a base class think of that coupling that now
applies there or especially if it's an after class think of hey.
This is not really abstraction.
I didn't design this correctly to better demonstrate this principle.
Let's again look at an example an intelligent
spring up our intel Jay.
We're going to name this example our dependency inversion.
Example.
Second see in this I wish I could automate this but dependency I could cut it out of the video but students
like to see typing from my experience so dependency inversion example and finish that up let's create
a class.
This first example is going to demonstrate a coupling between a password in a database.
It's not a real you know it's more of a concise conceptual example.
So bear with me it will make more sense.
Let's say I have a class and it's named.
It's called Password reminder.
Some kind of password reminder class inside this class.
Let's say I have a db connection right.
Let's say the connection actually is an integer so let's say DV connection
and then my constructor for my password reminder is going to take my secret connection.
And again bear with me this code may not compile because it has objects that have been created yet.
But let's say it has this DB connection and it's another class it's a my secret connection mice equals
a database manager and all this constructor is going to do is it's going to assign its member variable
to the one passed in which is very common and constructors.
OK conceptually again we have a member variable in my sequel connection.
Now this object my school connection to low level module the password reminder is a high level module
high level class.
My sequel low level class password reminder high level class according to the dependency and principle
we have to depend on an attraction not on concrete ins.
So this code is violating this principle because the password reminder class is being forced to depend
on the My School connection class right.
If you were to change the database engine in the future you would also have to change his password reminder
class and this also violates the open closed principle.
Do we see that.
So the past reminder class should not care what database your application uses.
It's a high level and low level classes should depend on an abstraction.
We should code to an interface violating couple principles here.
So what we'd want to do is we want to create an interface right that represented our DB connection or
database connection
and you know we can have our interconnect method in here returns and it posit number 4 if it works.
Negative number 4 doesn't.
Now this interface has connect method in the My School connection class would implement this interface
right.
So we would have something like class mice equal connection implements
this DB connection interface would have some logic to actually do the connection.
All right in this case we don't know what the logic is so we're just going to say return one for success.
And now the constructor of the password reminder class should accept the interface as a parameter not
the mice equal parameter.
This would mean that no matter what the type of the database this application uses password reminder
it can easily connect to the database without any problems and the open closed principles not violated
as well.
So here we would basically still instead of having our are private we would have our private int D.B.
connection.
This would not be an int though.
This would be the interface reference and in our constructor we would take the DV the interface and
then we would just sign it.
So now you'll notice that the password reminder which is a high level class has no dependencies on the
low level class of my school connection password reminder depends on the abstraction db connection interface.
My secret connection the lower level class also depends on the enter after action db connection interface.
You can change my secret connection without having to effect the client right.
And so this is the dependency inversion principle the loose coupling the Independent in again it looks
very very similar to programming to an interface but it really just is more strict.